member of the chow hall slam? Oh, gosh. Bread,
butter, milk, gravy, beans?
Let me think a little bit. It's been a long time that
I don't remember that. Do I remember any of those
things? I'll have to deal one if you want a piece of
bread. Milk?
It was cow.
Meat. Meat. I'm sorry. Bull neck. Bull neck. Bull
neck. All right. See, you know all of these things.
I don't remember. Did you ever, when you were home,
did you ever forget and say some of the things? You
want some shit on the shingle? Yeah. Yeah. And what
was the reaction of your family?
Again, by that time my father was dead and only my
mother, and she was not one to be shocked. It did not
bother her. Am I not correct that that was not an
uncommon thing for an Aggie to forget? Not
uncommon at all, no, no. It would be very common.
No, it would be quite common. And in my particular
case, it would not have come as a shock at all. All
right. Now let's talk about academics.
You ended up majoring in? Industrial
engineering. Industrial engineering. Help
please try to recall key faculty, counselors,
advisors, et cetera. Who were the people that made
a difference for you? The head of the... I started
out in a... When I went into the course, it was
called Management Engineering, and its name
changed to Industrial. And Arch Burgess was the
head of the department, and he was a... I... I can't
describe how wonderful a department head he could
be because he would work for his students. He would
do anything. He would come. He would work nights
with you on projects. He would come in and help you
individually.
When I was a senior, I had to, I again went to him and I
said, I have to have a course, and I don't even
remember what course it was, in order to graduate.
And it is not offered in this semester, which means
I will have to go another entire year. And he went to
the, I guess, academic council, and he agreed. He
said, all right, I have gotten them to authorize
the course for you. I will meet with you, and we will
discuss it. And if you need any help, you call me for
an appointment, and we will discuss it. I will give
you a mid-semester quiz. I'll give you a project
and an end-of-semester quiz. And I ended up
getting a B in the course. I was the only enrollee. I
think that would be difficult today. There are
just too many students. But he would do that. He did
it not only for me, he did it for other people that
had the same kind of problem. Others, add to that.
Oh. God, I
can see the man's face, but I can't remember his
name. He taught us statistics. He was an older man.
And he taught us statistics. And he... He really, I
guess, taught us to think. What in the world is a
man's name? I can see his face. I'll think of it in a
minute. He taught us statistics. But while
teaching us, he taught us statistics, but he
taught us how to think. What
is his name? Captain, Captain, Captain.
He was addressed by his military title. Well,
let's go on. Other, chemistry, physics, math,
English? English. A man by the name of Creswell who
taught us literature and really, again, took some
not very couth kids from Waco and taught him to
enjoy literature so that still today at any one
time I'm reading two books at least and maybe three
at any one time. But he taught us to appreciate and
enjoy reading.
I don't remember anything outstanding in math.
Chemistry, I enjoyed it every time I took it. I had
difficulty with chemistry. Do you
remember any of the instructions? No. Sorry. But I
just could not, chemistry never made sense to me
and I think it took me three semesters to get a D. And
I was so pleased with the D that it went home. It was
one of the mysteries of life.
over in a mechanical drawing slash et cetera shop.
We had to take shop as engineering in those days.
You had to be able to run a lathe. You had to work in a
foundry. Engineers, I don't think, do that
anymore. They simulate it, perhaps, on a computer
screen. But we had to go do it hands-on. And we
always called the guys slide rule. I can't
remember the slide rule. Can you remember any of
the other faculty nicknames?
Sorry? Cube Root Kent, Square Root Jackson.
Square Root Jackson is bigger than math. That's
something I've heard. Supposedly, the number of
students that have passed the course was the
square root of . Did you have any history? Oh, yes,
we had to take history, but again, nothing. In
those days, engineering, you took history
courses because you had to take history courses.
You don't remember who you were. No. I had an
elective in senior year, and I took a salesmanship
course from a man by the name of Thompson.
And I took public speaking, which is one that
Something that I enjoyed. I felt it was something
that I need. The other thing that I took, and his
name was Spriggs.
That comes trippingly from the tongue. I hope it's
accurate. But he taught public speaking, and I
wanted that course. These were electives in the
engineering courses. What were the unwritten
rules about class attendance and behavior? for
you and your buddies? Well, not to attend class and
not to have a good excuse was a zero value for the day
and anything that was homework that was late
didn't matter. If it was due on the day you didn't
attend, You got a zero. You might attend and not
have it done and get a dispensation to turn it in
later. But if you didn't come to class, it didn't
matter.
You always addressed the instructor by the title,
whether they were Mr. or Professor or Doctor.
you addressed always by title with a question. It
was formal, formal in those days. And that's just
the way it was done. A teaching assistant, which
you would see as a lab assistant in laboratories,
could be addressed by a first name. He's a doctoral
candidate or a master candidate. As you recall,
were the faculty members accessible to you? Yes.
Yes. Anytime. Anytime. At home, office, on the
campus. Yes, they were. They did a tremendous
amount of one-on-one. Yes. Do you have any idea
what it cost for you to go for a year or semester? I
have one thing that I've always enjoyed, and it's a
story I've told so many times, and yes, I remember
it. When I enrolled as a freshman, you had to have
$200, a diploma from an accredited high school,
and be free of communicable disease. That was the
only requirement, but you had to have $200. And
that paid for a semester? I guess it paid for a
semester. In your case, did you ever have an
on-campus job? Yes. Where? I worked for... I spent
most of my time working in the College of
Agriculture. The most memorable job being they
were developing, spraying from aircraft. And
back over across the river in one of the fields, we
would take eight and a half by eleven pieces of
paper. put them on little platforms across a field
for maybe 200 yards and the aircraft would come in
and would pass and spray back and forth. Then you
gather up all the pieces of paper where they were
located and you took them in and you put them on a
grid and then you counted the spots in the grid and
you had to decide what was a big spot and what was a
little spot. And it was the decisions that killed
me with the job. But it was a good job and it paid
well. I don't remember how much it was, but it was a
good paying job for that time. It was a good paying
job. I worked for them for three years. As far as you
can recall, about how much spending money did you
have to spend casually? Oh, no more than five
dollars a week, if that much. No more than that.
What would you spend on casual food? Junk food,
entertainment. Where did you get that? Well, they
had drink machines were there and so forth.
Vending apparatus were there. both on campus and
at the Air Force Base. And then at Northgate, there
were always places to spend your money. And it
didn't go to grind very much. You could do anything
you wanted to do at Northgate. The YMCA was there.
Oh, yes. What would it do? What was that for? Why? I
was never active in the YMCA, but they generally
did, you know, to the best of my knowledge, if you
had a problem or trouble, you would go to the Y, and
they would find ways to help you, but I'm sorry. Was
Mr. Cashin still?
I don't know. No, Ray Cashin. Yeah, Ray Cashin. MSC
opened? I think in the spring of my sophomore year,
I
went in the fall of 48, spring of 49. I don't
remember whether it was spring of 49 or the spring
of 50 that it opened. And it was wonderful with
Bowling Alley and all of that.
It was something badly needed by the university
and something that needs to be about 10 times its
size today. You have to understand that the
basic building is unchanged from then. You have
40,000 students trying to get into that building.
We had five. What did the MSC mean in motion in 10X?
Did the word memorial, was that an important part
of it? The Memorial Student Center, yes. It was
important that it was a memorial because we were
much closer to a major war than they are today. We
were much closer to the war that generated it.
There were even people who were students who were
over there and had been shot in that war. And then
there were we younger people who had relatives
that had died in that war. And so the memorial park
was more important to us than I'm sure it is today.
You and I are almost exactly the same age. These old
veterans from World War II. You're talking about
my brother. They were living where? Where did the
vets live? They lived in the older dorms, Law,
Currier, the dorms, some that are gone now. Then
the married ones, where did they live? The married
ones lived down there on the south corner in the
projects, and then across up the... What do they
call it up there behind what used to be the Ramada?
They were up in there. There were two areas for
married students. What did you youngsters think
about the veterans as fellow students? They were
just students. Didn't think anything about them
one way or the other. They were just students. It
was fine. Did they work hard? Were they... They
were a challenge to us. They were more dedicated.
We were
still teenagers. We were 18 and 19. And they were in
their upper ends of their 20s and usually in a hurry
to get on with their lives. And we weren't. As far as
you can recall, what did their lives do? I wasn't. I
have no idea. At 18, I probably didn't care. I was
assuming that many of them worked on campus at
various places. Oh, I'm sure they were the
secretaries and so forth on campus. I feel
confident of that. Did the MSC have a lot of
activities early in its existence? Yes. Upstairs
in the I don't know what they call it now. It was an
auditorium at that time. It had a stage and a
ballroom. But it had a stage and all of that. And
yes, they brought in the big bands of the day. They
played on that stage. I
can't remember any of the big bands. But they were
all well known. And they came in. You could dance
there and on out. It opened on to the roof of the
building next to Terry's. So you could handle
several hundred up there at any one time. Yes, it
was the university, I think, worked hard to keep
things going in that building. And I think they did
a very good job. Were you aware of Wayne Stark then?
Wayne Stark was there. You know, for me, he and I did
not, we did not have any interaction at all. What
happened at Guy and Hall? Well, that was movie
theater. Yes, there were movies there. Guy, of
course, is gone. He's across the street from the
park. How often were there movies? All the time.
Every day. Every day. It was just a running movie
theater. Did y'all go much? Oh, yes. Because you
could go for... nickels and dimes i don't remember
the price but it was no cost and the movies changed
twice a week and normally the audience was only
students well you again you're running pretty
much the first run movies so the this faculty and
staff is there too they came oh yes because you're
seeing whatever the first run yeah they've
already played houston and dallas But now they're
in College Station at Guyon Hall and changing
twice a week. So faculty and staff and the local
people, anybody want to come see a movie? But sure,
the big volume of people in the building would be
students. Let's see. Let's talk about the student
body in general. If liberal means receptive
change and conservative means hesitant
acceptance of change, Describe the student body
in general. We were conservative. We were
hesitant to change. Hesitant to change
tradition.
We came mostly from rural backgrounds, which are
fought change. Rich or poor? Poor for the most
part. Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, what?
Protestant. Heavily Protestant. Very, very
heavily Protestant. Let's describe the student.
Do you remember some non-Anglo Protestant
students? A few Mexicans.
Mexican-American? Mexican-American. And how
were they treated? They were just students. Now,
we had black prejudice, perhaps, in those days. We
would not have wanted a black student there. But
most of us had gone to high school, and the
Mexican-Americans were just students in high
school. And so they were just students there. Did
you have any Jewish
students there? I can't remember a name there as
freshman. We had, I do as junior and senior. Yes, as
junior and senior, yes. And how were they treated?
It was just another guy. Just another student. I
mean, again, I didn't find any religious
prejudice. And we're now talking about a
religious prejudice. And no, I think that There
was no Catholic prejudice. Maybe I didn't see it.
Maybe it didn't occur to me to be prejudiced
because of my upbringing. But I knew nothing of
prejudice for Catholic or for Jewish or for Mormon
or whatever else you might say. Were there any
students from another country? Were there any
international undergraduate students? I did not
interact with them if there were. They were not in
my outfit and they were not in industrial
engineering. And in those days, as you narrowed
down into junior and senior, you closed most of the
rest of the world out from, except for your outfit
and your department.
Let's see,
we said, well to do or not, okay. Religion. There
were a few wealthy ones. A friend of mine from Fort
Worth, Cullen Davis, came from a very wealthy
family. And Cullen was wealthy and his father sent
he and his brothers to A&M because he wanted them to
be jerked up short from being rich kids. And that's
why he sent them down there. They were nice guys.
And Cullen was in industrial engineering with me.
And that's, you know, we became friends there.
Let's see. G. Raleigh is built after you? Yes. Yes.
So DeWare was the basketball game? DeWare was the
field. Describe DeWare,
kind of basketball game setting. Did y'all go? Oh,
yes. Yes. Physically small. As I recall, seats on
only one side of the basketball court.
It was an old, old building. But DeWare was not
there yet, no. The assembly hall still existed.
Where the chapel is now, right behind Law and
Puryear, was the assembly hall. It was a wooden
building.
It still existed. I was in the Aggie Players and we
performed in the assembly hall. Describe the
Aggie Players. What did they do? It was, we did
everything. We did comedy, we did Greek, we did
Oedipus and comedy. Who was the director?
Or advisor? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a
minute. He announced football games for
everybody. C.K.S. C.K.S. Describe him. All
right, you guys. You guys are so damn stupid you
couldn't learn anything. I like C.K. He was
straightforward. He didn't mince any words. He
wasn't polite. He used whatever word was most
appropriate. He didn't care whether you liked it
or not. Is that a fair description of CK? Where was
his heart? Everywhere. You're inferring he cared
about students? Oh, yes. Yes, yes, yes. Now, as
long as you did good, he'd say, ah, that's OK. But if
you did bad, he'd tell you everything you did
wrong. Now, was he the PA announcer at football?
I don't know. I don't want to tell you the truth.
Forever after that. Ten years later he was, I
believe. Yes, and forever after that he was.
Because I was there, but one day when he forgot to
flip, he thought he'd flip the switch off. He might
have said anything. I don't know what he said. He
did, and Mr. Rudder sent a note for him to come to his
office Monday morning. And C.K. went into the
general's office. Scared. and let her stare the
hole through it, and then burst out laughing. And
then said, now come on, C. Describe the, we're now
on the main campus, and you're a sophomore or
higher. Describe the routine of a home football
weekend. What happened on Friday afternoon,
night, and all day Saturday? After class on
Friday, you had dinner, and then there was Yelp, I
guess. And everybody formed up and marched to Yale
practice at the Grove.
Is the bank shell still over at the Grove? I think
so. Is it still there at the end of the drill field? I
think so. I don't know. I don't know. I haven't
noticed in years, to tell you the truth. But you
went to the Grove for Yale practice. And with or
without date, you might have a date. If so, she was
there. And of course I got married while I was going
to school. So Mary Sue was there for Yale practice.
Now at what time? Was this at midnight? Yes. Okay.
Yes. And then it was usually back to the Student
Center where there was some kind of entertainment
going on. And that was Friday night. There
generally were By upperclassman time, you
weren't scheduling Saturday classes. You
figured out how to get out of that track. And so
Saturday was a fairly sleep late day. And you would
then get ready for the game, which would normally
be at 1 o'clock. Because we wanted to get that game
played without lights. Lights. I'm not even sure
Kyle Field had lights. I'm not certain of it. It may
have. But I don't remember a game. And you played a
football game at 1 o'clock. so that you were
through by four o'clock and it's still light even
late into the season and there's plenty of light
for everything. And that went, you went to the
game. If there was no game, if it was an away game and
not a court trip, you probably didn't go to the
game. Again, transportation being difficult,
expensive, etc right now but let's go back
saturday morning slept late you ate the noon meal
about what time oh it was always served early
probably by 11. and so you would then meet your date
where oh depending on where she stayed you had to
arrange for her to stay i was lucky in that i could
generally get get Mary Sue into a room at the
Student Center. You would plan ahead enough to
make sure that you could get her into one there. So
we'd meet there. And then go down to Duncan and eat.
And then go to the game. You marched in. I had to
march in. You took your date to the game, got her
inside Playster. Usually you then had to go back
and you would catch your outfit en route. just in
time to march in, march around the thing. As
upperclassmen, you'd get away with that,
freshman, sophomore, but. Then as a Saturday
night, what did y'all eat?
The usual things, maybe a movie, maybe if there was
something on campus. On a game night, they would
usually, if it was good weather, have something at
the Grove. which could spill out again, some kind
of music. And you might dance, you might do
nothing, you know, just one of those things. It
was... Do you remember going to the Cotton Ball? Oh
yes, yes.
Where was it? The Cotton Ball was held in Sbisa
because it was physically large. And the Cotton
Queen and so forth, there were delegates elected
from other, girls elected from other
universities to be delegates to the Cotton Ball.
And
it went on. And some girl ended up as the Cotton
Queen. And I don't even know what the selection
process was. What did a young man and young woman
wear to the cotton ball? A young man wore his
uniform. And a young woman would usually be in a
long evening dress. Full, you know, full evening
dress. How would you describe the behavior of
people at the cotton ball? Very formal. Very
formal. As you would expect of the era. How were
young ladies treated? Oh, my goodness. As queens,
they were of great respect. Oh, yes.
They got a seat. They had a drink. They were taken
care of. They were waited on hand and foot. Now,
let's make believe you're dating a young lady.
Would you dance every dance with her? Not
necessarily. How did you dance with someone else?
Usually you would interchange with a friend's
date, and occasionally, the men always
outnumbered the men, some of your friends who did
not have dates would probably dance with yours
at the time. And the big bands were there. Oh, yeah.
What were the other big dances? There was a
military...